Apache Portable Runtime Utility Library README
----------------------------------------------

   The Apache Portable Runtime Utility Library provides a predictable
   and consistent interface to underlying client library interfaces.
   This API assures predictable if not identical behavior regardless
   of which libraries are available on a given platform.

   APR and its companion libraries are implemented entirely in C
   and provide a common programming interface across a wide variety
   of operating system platforms without sacrificing performance.
   Currently supported platforms include:

     UNIX variants
     Windows
     Netware
     Mac OS X
     OS/2

   To give a brief overview, the primary core
   subsystems of APR-util 1.3 include the following:

     Hashing and UUID services
     Multiple SQL DBD client interfaces
     Multiple flat-database DBM client interfaces
     Typesafe function Hooks abstraction
     LDAP SSL connections for a variety of LDAP toolkits   
     MemCache interface
     Date parsing rourtines
     Resource Lists
     Thread Pools
     Queues
     Relocatable Memory Management functions
     String filename-style pattern matching
     URI Parsing
     Charset translation (iconv based)
     XML parsing (expat based)

   For a more complete list, please refer to the following URLs:

     http://apr.apache.org/docs/apr-util/modules.html

   Users of APR 0.9 should be aware that migrating to the APR 1.x
   programming interfaces may require some adjustments; APR 1.x is
   neither source nor binary compatible with earlier APR 0.9 releases.
   Users of APR 1.x can expect consistent interfaces and binary backwards
   compatibility throughout the entire APR 1.x release cycle, as defined
   in our versioning rules:

     http://apr.apache.org/versioning.html

   APR is already used extensively by the Apache HTTP Server
   version 2 and the Subversion revision control system, to
   name but a few.  We list all known projects using APR at
   http://apr.apache.org/projects.html -- so please let us know
   if you find our libraries useful in your own projects!


Database Providers
------------------
As of apr-util version 1.2.11, MySQL DBD driver is shipped as part of the
distribution.  However, to avoid licensing incompatibilities, it is not
built by default.  To enable MySQL support, use the --with-mysql option,
but be aware that the MySQL license may introduce licensing implications
for your compiled code.  Similarly, the bindings for propritary drivers
such as Oracle (--with-oracle option) must also be explicitly enabled.

On windows, selection of supported drivers is via the environment values
DBD_LIST (for freetds, mysql, oracle, pgsql, sqlite2 and/or sqlite3) 
and DBM_LIST (db and/or gdbm).  DBD odbc and DBM sdbm are unconditionally
compiled and installed, do not include these in the list.

Whenever distributing apr-util in combination with database client 
drivers, always review the license requirements of all components.


Cryptographic Software Notice
-----------------------------
This distribution includes cryptographic software.  The country in 
which you currently reside may have restrictions on the import, 
possession, use, and/or re-export to another country, of 
encryption software.  BEFORE using any encryption software, please 
check your country's laws, regulations and policies concerning the
import, possession, or use, and re-export of encryption software, to 
see if this is permitted.  See http://www.wassenaar.org/ for more
information.

The U.S. Government Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and
Security (BIS), has classified this software as Export Commodity 
Control Number (ECCN) 5D002.C.1, which includes information security
software using or performing cryptographic functions with asymmetric
algorithms.  The form and manner of this Apache Software Foundation
distribution makes it eligible for export under the License Exception
ENC Technology Software Unrestricted (TSU) exception (see the BIS 
Export Administration Regulations, Section 740.13) for both object 
code and source code.

The following provides more details on the included cryptographic
software:

  APR-Util provides an abstract interface for symmetrical cryptographic
  functions that make use of a general-purpose encryption library,
  such as OpenSSL, NSS, or the operating system's platform-specific
  facilities. This interface is known as the apr_crypto interface,
  with implementation beneath the /crypto directory.

  APR-Util provides an abstract interface for SSL encrypted LDAP (ldaps
  and STARTTLS style) connections, which can be powered by OpenLDAP, 
  Netscape LDAP SDK, Mozilla LDAP SDK, or other platform specific ldap
  interfaces.

