# SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only

config GH_SECURE_VM_LOADER
	tristate "Gunyah Secure Virtual Machine Loader Driver"
	depends on GUNYAH
	select QCOM_MDT_LOADER
	help
	  This driver invokes mdt Loader to load images of
	  any secure guest Virtual Machine (VM). The images are loaded
	  in the carveout designated for the VM once the firmware name
	  is validated.

config GH_PROXY_SCHED
	tristate "PROXY Scheduling for Secondary VMs"
	depends on GUNYAH
	help
	  Gunyah Proxy Scheduler provides framework to schedule/run VCPUs
	  of Secondary VMs by exposing required functionality which can be
	  invoked by the Gunyah driver. Gunyah Proxy Scheduler communicates
	  with Gunyah hypervisor to run the VCPUs as needed.

menuconfig GUNYAH_DRIVERS
	bool "Gunyah Virtualization drivers"
	depends on ARM64
	help
	  The Gunyah drivers are the helper interfaces that runs on the
	  virtual machines that provides support such as memory/device
	  sharing, IRQ sharing, IPC/signalling mechanisms, and so on.

	  Say Y here to enable the drivers needed to work on Gunyah
	  virtualization environment.

	  If you say N, all options in this submenu will be skipped and disabled.

if GUNYAH_DRIVERS

config GH_VIRT_WATCHDOG
	tristate "Gunyah Virtual Watchdog Driver"
	depends on QCOM_WDT_CORE
	help
	  This enables the Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. watchdog module for
	  the Gunyah hypervisor. It provides an interface to perform watchdog
	  actions such as setting the bark/bite time and also petting the
	  watchdog in the hypervisor.

config GH_DBL
	tristate "Gunyah Doorbell driver"
	help
	  Gunyah offers a simple inter VMs(Virtual Machines) communication
	  through the use of doorbell interrupts. A single doorbell instance
	  provides an unidirectional communication between two VMs and it acts
	  like either a source(Tx) or generate(Rx). Individual VMs make use of
	  these doorbells by calling send and/or a receive primitives exposed by
	  driver and trigger an interrupt to each other and exchange the data.

config GH_MSGQ
	tristate "Gunyah Message Queue driver"
	help
	  Gunyah offers message-queues as one of the IPC mechanisms to
	  communicate among the Virtual Machines. The message queue drivers
	  runs on the Virtual machines to provide an interface to the clients
	  who wish to communicate to other clients on a different VM. Currently,
	  the services offered by the drivers is simply to send and receive
	  messages in a blocking manner.

config GH_RM_DRV
	tristate "Gunyah Resource Manager driver"
	help
	  The Gunyah Resource Manager driver is used to communicate with the
	  Resource Manager Virtual Machine (RM-VM). The RM-VM acts as a mediator
	  and provides numerous services to the other VMs running in the system,
	  such as notifying when a particular VM is up, resource (IRQ/device)
	  sharing between VMs, information about the IPC mechanisms, and so on.

	  The Resource Manager driver runs on the Virtual Machine and acts as an
	  interface to other driver in order to obtain the services provided by
	  the RM-VM.

config GH_IRQ_LEND
	  tristate "Gunyah IRQ Lending Framework"
	  depends on GH_RM_DRV
	  help
	  Gunyah Resource Manager permits interrupts to be shared between
	  virtual machines. This config enables a framework which
	  supports sharing these interrupts. The follows RM recommended
	  protocol.

config GH_MEM_NOTIFIER
	tristate "Gunyah Memory Resource Notification Framework"
	depends on GH_RM_DRV
	help
	  The Gunyah Resource Manager allows for different memory resources
	  to be transferred across virtual machines with different notification
	  labels assigned to each resource to aid in distinguishing them.
	  Enabling the Gunyah Memory Resource Notification Framework provides an
	  interface for clients to transmit memory resources between virtual
	  machines, and register callbacks that get invoked only when
	  notifications pertaining to their memory resources arrive.

config GH_GUEST_POPS
	tristate "Gunyah Guest Power-Operations driver"
	depends on GH_RM_DRV
	help
	The driver runs on guest VMs and is majorly responsible for coordinating
	  the guest's power operations. This includes, setting the VM's status,
	  such as OS_STATUS_* or APPS_STATUS_*. It also acts as an input power key
	  driver. That is, it listens to the shutdown requests, and when it receives
	  one, it'll emulate a power key press action by sending an input
	  notification to user-space.

endif
