dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.43 2023/03/16 18:04:07 miod Exp $
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk.  The easiest way is
to boot from the bootable CD-ROM mini image, then install from your favorite
source. Network booting is supported through means of dhcpd(8) and tftpd(8).

Booting from CD-ROM installation media:

	At the SRM console prompt, enter
		show device
	to find the device ID of your CD-ROM drive (the device ID is
	usually in the second column (``bootdev'') and should start
	with DKA for a SCSI CD-ROM drive).  If your drive shows up with
	a drive number with trailing zeros, you will want to ignore them
	(unless it is DKA0).  For example, if your CD-ROM drive is listed
	as DKA600, you want to use dka6 (device IDs are case
	insensitive).

	Insert the OpenBSD/MACHINE CD-ROM and enter
		boot DEVICE
	where DEVICE is the dka device name.

	You should see info about the primary and secondary boot and then the
	kernel should start to load.  If the kernel fails to load or the
	spinning cursor has stopped and nothing further has happened, you
	either have a hardware problem or your MACHINE is not currently
	supported by OpenBSD; try booting from the network instead if
	possible.

Booting from Network:

	In order to bootstrap via the network, you must provide a second
	system to act as a boot server. It is convenient if this is a second
	OpenBSD machine as the necessary services are already installed,
	although source code for such programs as dhcpd can be found in
	OpenBSD's source tree, and should be reasonably portable to other
	Unix-like operating systems. More information on diskless booting
	can be found in the OpenBSD diskless(8) manual page.

	Alpha systems can download their boot code over the network either
	using the old DEC MOP protocol, or the common bootp protocol.

	Older systems, such as the DEC 3000 systems, can only use the MOP
	protocol.

	Booting from a bootp or dhcp server:

	    You will need to set up dhcpd on the server, which can serve
	    bootp protocol requests.  Start by editing the /etc/dhcpd.conf
	    on the bootserver, and declare an information block. Here is an
	    example:

	    subnet 10.0.0.0 netmask 255.0.0.0 {
		host piper {
			always-reply-rfc1048 "true";
			filename "netboot";
			option root-path "/alpha";
			hardware ethernet 08:00:2b:3d:28:2a;
			fixed-address 10.42.42.42;
		}
	    }

	    Do not forget to start dhcpd.

	    You will also need to start tftpd, for the system to download
	    the "netboot" file from the server in the /tftpboot directory.

	Booting from a MOP server:

	    You will need to copy netboot.mop into
	    /tftpboot/mop/1a2b3c4d5e6f.SYS, where "1a2b3c4d5e6f" represents
	    the six octets of your Ethernet address, which can be obtained
	    with ``show dev'' at the SRM prompt.  For example, the filename
	    for the machine in the dhcp example above would be
	    "08002b3d282a.SYS".  Note that the MAC portion of the filename
	    must be lower case, but the "SYS" extension must be upper case.

	    Do not forget to start mopd.

	Common netboot steps:

	    A few more services need to be enabled on the boot server.

	    First, add the Ethernet address to /etc/ethers file, as in:

		08:00:2b:3d:28:2a	piper

	    and start rarpd.

	    Second, you will need to export a directory for your new machine
	    to mount over NFS, in order to get its kernel. This is
	    accomplished by adding an entry to /etc/exports such as:

		/alpha	piper

	    The NFS server (which may be a different machine than the
	    MOP or dhcp server) will need to run nfsd, mountd, and the
	    rpc portmapper.  See the exports(5) manpage for more
	    information.

	    Last, you will need to add an entry for your system in
	    /etc/bootparams, to point to the NFS server.  For example:

		piper		root=myserver:/alpha

	    and start bootparamd.

	    Once loaded, the boot loader will mount /alpha over NFS and load
	    the kernel from there.

Installing using the CD-ROM or Network procedure:

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	Boot your machine from the installation media as described above.

	It will take a while to load the installation kernel, especially
	from a slow network connection or a CD-ROM, most likely more than
	a minute.
	If some action doesn't eventually happen, or the spinning cursor
	has stopped and nothing further has happened, either your boot
	media is bad, your diskless setup is incorrect, or you may have
	a hardware or configuration problem.

OpenBSDInstallPart3

OpenBSDInstallPart4

OpenBSDInstallPart5

OpenBSDInstallPart6({:-CD-ROM, -:})

OpenBSDURLInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall({:-"wdN" or -:},{:-only -:})

OpenBSDCommonInstall

OpenBSDInstallWrapup

OpenBSDCongratulations



OpenBSDUnattendedInstallation
