dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.30 2022/09/12 10:16:09 jsg Exp $
dnl lots of texts coming from {mvme68k,vax}/install initially
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

Bootstrapping the installation ramdisk kernel is supported
from either the network or a CD-ROM.


Booting from CD-ROM installation media:

  To boot from SCSI CD-ROM, simply insert the CD into the drive before power
  up, then during the computer's self-test cycle, press the space bar.
  Subsequently at the PROM prompt issue a command:

	BOOT_ADMIN> search

  to initiate a search for all bootable devices available.  This procedure
  may take a few minutes and should you have configured network boot services
  present may find those too.  A sample output might be:

   Path Number        Device Path              Device Type
   -----------        -----------------        -----------
   P0                 SESCSI.2.0               TOSHIBA CD-ROM XM-6201TA
   P1                 LAN.10.0.0.5.3.254       boron
   P2                 FWSCSI.5.0               IBM     DDRS-34560WS
   P3                 FWSCSI.0.0               SEAGATE ST318436LW
   P4                 SESCSI.6.0               HP     HP35480A

  To boot from your CD-ROM type:

	BOOT_ADMIN> boot p0


Booting from Network:

  In order to bootstrap via the network, you must provide a second system to
  act as a boot server. It is convenient if this is a second OpenBSD machine
  as the necessary services are already installed, although source code for
  such programs as dhcpd can be found in OpenBSD's source tree, and should be
  reasonably portable to other Unix-like operating systems. More information
  on diskless booting can be found in the OpenBSD diskless(8) manual page.

  Your MACHINE expects to be able to download a LIF (``Logical
  Interchange Format'') image, containing both the boot code and the kernel,
  via the HP rboot protocol, for older firmware, or via the bootp protocol,
  for more recent firmware.

  Old firmware operation

    Most of the 7xx models (except the 712, the second generation of 715, i.e.
    715/64/80/100/100XC, and the 74x) have an older version of PDC. There are
    two levels of interactive commands in this version.
    The first level is a short menu:

	b)   Boot from specified device
	s)   Search for bootable device
	a)   Enter Boot Administration mode
	x)   Exit and continue boot sequence

	Select from menu:

    In this case, you will need to set up rbootd on the server. Start by
    creating an /etc/rbootd.conf file on the bootserver. The format of this
    file is the Ethernet address followed by the LIF filename. Here is an
    example:

	08:00:09:70:c4:11		lif{:--:}OSrev.img

    Then start rbootd (or configure /etc/rc.conf to always start rbootd). Once
    rbootd is running, the server name will then appear on the MACHINE as part
    of the possible boot choices in a boot device search (``s'' command).

  Modern firmware operation

    More recent machines mostly those based on the 7100LC, 7200 and 7300LC CPU
    types have a different PDC version.  There is only one interactive mode,
    with a BOOT_ADMIN> prompt, which provides both boot settings and commands.

    In this case, you will need to set up dhcpd on the server, which can
    serve bootp protocol requests.  Start by editing the /etc/dhcpd.conf on
    the bootserver, and declare an information block. Here is an example:

	subnet 10.0.0.0 netmask 255.0.0.0 {
		host boron {
			filename "lif{:--:}OSrev.img";
			hardware ethernet 08:00:09:70:c4:11;
			fixed-address 10.42.42.42;
		}
	}

    Do not forget to enable dhcpd.

    You will also need to enable tftpd, for the MACHINE to download the
    installation kernel (`filename' entry) from the server in its tftp
    directory.

  Common operation

    You are now ready to bootstrap the installation kernel. On your machine,
    escape to a prompt and boot from the network by entering ``boot lan isl''.
    On old PDC firmware, you will need to enter administration mode first.


Installing using the netboot procedure:

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	Boot your machine from the installation media as described above.

	It will take a while to load the installation kernel, especially from
	a slow network connection or a CD-ROM, most likely more than a minute.
	If some action doesn't eventually happen, or the spinning cursor
	has stopped and nothing further has happened, either your boot
	media is bad, your diskless setup is incorrect, or you may have
	a hardware or configuration problem.

OpenBSDInstallPart3(,"sd0")

OpenBSDInstallPart4

OpenBSDInstallPart5(,{:-
	Due to prom limitations, you should make sure the whole 'a'
	partition is CONTAINED WITHIN THE FIRST 2GB of the disk if
	you intend to boot from it.-:})

	Since the target disk will become the boot disk for your new
	OpenBSD/MACHINE installation, the disklabel program will restrict
	the available disk area to keep the first cylinder, which will
	contain the bootblock, safe from being overwritten. If you don't
	plan to install a bootblock on this disk, you can reclaim this
	space with the 'b' command.

OpenBSDInstallPart6({:-CD-ROM, -:})

OpenBSDURLInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDNFSInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall(,{:-only -:})

OpenBSDCommonInstall

OpenBSDInstallWrapup

OpenBSDCongratulations



OpenBSDUnattendedInstallation
