# SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

menuconfig I3C
	tristate "I3C support"
	select I2C
	help
	  I3C is a serial protocol standardized by the MIPI alliance.

	  It's supposed to be backward compatible with I2C while providing
	  support for high speed transfers and native interrupt support
	  without the need for extra pins.

	  The I3C protocol also standardizes the slave device types and is
	  mainly designed to communicate with sensors.

	  If you want I3C support, you should say Y here and also to the
	  specific driver for your bus adapter(s) below.

	  This I3C support can also be built as a module.  If so, the module
	  will be called i3c.

if I3C

config I3CDEV
	tristate "I3C device interface"
	depends on I3C
	help
	  Say Y here to use i3c-* device files, usually found in the /dev
	  directory on your system.  They make it possible to have user-space
	  programs use the I3C devices.

	  This support is also available as a module.  If so, the module
	  will be called i3cdev.

	  Note that this application programming interface is EXPERIMENTAL
	  and hence SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE while it stabilizes.

if I3CDEV
config I3CDEV_FORCE_CREATE
	bool "force create I3C device interface"
	default y
	help
	  Say 'y' to force create I3C devices under /dev/bus/i3c/ regardless of
	  driver binding.  This option is to help development so it shall be
	  turned off in production.
endif # I3CDEV

config I3C_IBI_MQUEUE
	bool "I3C mqueue (message queue) master ibi driver"
	default y
	help
	  Some protocols over I3C are designed for bi-directional transferring
	  messages by using I3C IBI protocol. This driver is used to receive and
	  queue messages from the remote I3C slave device.

	  Userspace can get the messages by reading sysfs file that this driver
	  exposes.

config I3C_SLAVE_MQUEUE
	bool "I3C mqueue (message queue) secondary master and slave driver"
	default y
	help
	  Some protocols over I3C are designed for bi-directional transferring
	  messages by using I3C Master Write protocol. This driver is used to
	  receive and queue messages from the remote I3C main master device.

	  Userspace can get the messages by reading sysfs file that this driver
	  exposes.

config I3C_MUX_IMX3102
	bool "IMX/IML3102 I3C multiplexer driver"
	default y
	select REGMAP_I3C
	help
	  Say y to enable Renesas IMX3102 I3C 2:1 multiplexer.

source "drivers/i3c/master/Kconfig"
endif # I3C
