2009 8/18

Core:
1) Get reviews
2) Additional testing
3) Ensure all desirable features present by adding more devices.
   Major changes not expected except in response to comments

Max1363 core:
1) Possibly add sysfs exports of constant useful to userspace.
Would be nice
2) Support hardware generated interrupts
3) Expand device set. Lots of other maxim adc's have very
   similar interfaces.

MXS LRADC driver:
This is a classic MFD device as it combines the following subdevices
 - touchscreen controller (input subsystem related device)
 - general purpose ADC channels
 - battery voltage monitor (power subsystem related device)
 - die temperature monitor (thermal management)

At least the battery voltage and die temperature feature is required in-kernel
by a driver of the SoC's battery charging unit to avoid any damage to the
silicon and the battery.

TSL2561
Would be nice
1) Open question of userspace vs kernel space balance when
converting to useful light measurements from device ones.
2) Add sysfs elements necessary to allow device agnostic
unit conversion.

LIS3L02DQ core

LIS3L02DQ ring

KXSD9
Currently minimal driver, would be nice to add:
1) Support for all chip generated interrupts (events),
basically get support up to level of lis3l02dq driver.

Ring buffer core

SCA3000
Would be nice
1) Testing on devices other than sca3000-e05

Trigger core support
1) Discussion of approach. Is it general enough?

Ring Buffer:
1) Discussion of approach.
There are probably better ways of doing this. The
intention is to allow for more than one software ring
buffer implementation as different users will have
different requirements.  This one suits mid range
frequencies (100Hz - 4kHz).
2) Lots of testing

Periodic Timer trigger
1) Move to a more general hardware periodic timer request
subsystem. Current approach is abusing purpose of RTC.
Initial discussions have taken place, but no actual code
is in place as yet. This topic will be reopened on lkml
shortly. I don't really envision this patch being merged
in anything like its current form.

GPIO trigger
1) Add control over the type of interrupt etc.  This will
necessitate a header that is also visible from arch board
files. (avoided at the moment to keep the driver set
contained in staging).

ADI Drivers:
CC the device-drivers-devel@blackfin.uclinux.org mailing list when
e-mailing the normal IIO list (see below).

Documentation
1) Lots of cleanup and expansion.
2) Some device require individual docs.

Contact: Jonathan Cameron <jic23@kernel.org>.
Mailing list: linux-iio@vger.kernel.org
