dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.17 2025/05/17 08:22:03 aoyama Exp $
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk. The easiest way
in terms of preliminary setup is to use the OpenBSD miniroot that can be
booted off your local disk's swap partition. Alternatively, you can
use the OpenBSD bootblocks and the ramdisk kernel, bsd.rd, copied to an
existing UniOS partition.


Booting from the Installation Media:

Prior to attempting an installation, everything of value on the target
system should be backed up.  While installing OpenBSD does not necessarily
wipe out all the partitions on the hard disk, errors during the install
process can have unforeseen consequences and will probably leave the system
unbootable if the installation process is not completed. Availability
of the installation media for the prior installation, such as a LUNA-88K
UniOS tape, is always a good insurance, should it be necessary to "go back"
for some reason.

After taking care of all that, the system should be brought down gracefully
using the shutdown(8) and/or halt(8) commands, which will eventually go
back to the PROM prompt. Remember that the leftmost switch from the front
panel DIP switch #1 must be down to access the PROM prompt.

Booting from an existing partition:

    Copy the OpenBSD/MACHINE boot loader on one of the first 8 partitions
    (a-h). Copy the installation kernel (bsd.rd) to the same partition.

    At the PROM prompt, enter

      b sd(n,p):boot

    to boot the OpenBSD bootloader from the specified disk and partition.
    Replace 'p' with the partition number (usually 0, for the 'a' partition),
    and 'n' with the appropriate number from the following table:

      disk drive SCSI ID: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
      value of 'n':       6 5 4 3 2 1 0

    On LUNA-88K2 systems, if the disk drive is connected to the external SCSI
    controller, add 10 to this number. For example, to boot from a disk drive
    with ID #0 connected to the external controller, enter:

      b sd(10,0)boot

    Once the OpenBSD bootloader starts, at the ``boot>'' prompt, enter:

      boot sd(n,p)bsd.rd

    to boot the installation kernel from the same partition.


Booting from the miniroot:

    Copy the OpenBSD/MACHINE miniroot to the swap partition (assuming your
    disk is sd0):

	dd if=miniroot{:--:}OSrev.img of=/dev/sd0b

    After halting the system, at the PROM prompt, enter

	b sd(n,1)

    to boot the OpenBSD bootloader from the swap partition.

    Once the OpenBSD bootloader starts, at the ``boot>'' prompt, enter:

      boot sd(n,1)

    to boot the installation kernel from the same partition.


Installing the system:

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	Boot your machine from the installation media as described above.

	It will take a while to load the kernel especially from a slow
	network connection, most likely more than a minute.  If some action
	doesn't eventually happen, or the spinning cursor has stopped and
	nothing further has happened, either your boot media is bad, your
	diskless setup isn't correct, or you may have a hardware or
	configuration problem.

OpenBSDInstallPart3(,"sd0")

OpenBSDInstallPart4

OpenBSDInstallPart5

OpenBSDInstallPart6({:-CD-ROM, NFS, -:})

OpenBSDURLInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall
		
OpenBSDNFSInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall(,{:-only -:})

OpenBSDCommonInstall

OpenBSDInstallWrapup

OpenBSDCongratulations



OpenBSDUnattendedInstallation
