# $FreeBSD$

This directory is for tools.

A tool is something which is sometimes useful, and doesn't fit any of
the other categories.

Please make a subdir per program, and add a brief description to this
file.

ansify		Convert K&R-style function definitions to ANSI style
ath		Tools specific to the Atheros 802.11 support
cfi		Common Flash Interface (CFI) tool
commitsdb	A tool for reconstructing commit history using md5
		checksums of the commit logs.
crypto		Test and exercise tools related to the crypto framework
cxgbetool	A tool for the cxgbe(4) driver.
cxgbtool	A tool for the cxgb(4) driver.
drm		Tools specific to the DRM/KMS device drivers.
editing		Editor modes and the like to help editing FreeBSD code.
epfe 		Extract printing filter examples from printing.sgml.
ether_reflect	An Ethernet packet reflector for low level testing.
find-sb		Scan a disk for possible filesystem superblocks.
gdb_regofs	A simple tool that prints out a register offset table
		for mapping gdb(1) register numbers to struct reg and
		struct fpreg offsets. The tool is useful on selected
		platforms only.
genericize	Turn a kernel config into something that can more easily
		be diffed against the appropriate GENERIC.
git		Tools to simplify the use of git by committers.
hcomp		Compress header files by removing comments and whitespace.
html-mv         Rename HTML generated filenames to human readable filenames.
ifinfo		Uses the interface MIB to print out all the information
		an interface exports in an ugly form.
indent_wrapper	Tool for style(9) checking SVN/GIT patches.
intel-ucode-split Tool to split Intel microcode into individual files.
iso             Tool to compare the iso3166 and iso639 files in
		/usr/share/misc with the data from the master sites.
iwi		Tools specific to the Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG/2225BG/2915ABG
		support.
kdrv		KernelDriver; add/list/remove third-party kernel driver
		source to/in/from a kernel source tree.
kernelcruft	Shellscript to find orphaned *.c files in /sys
kerninclude	Shellscript to find unused #includes in the kernel.
kernxref	Shellscript to cross reference symbols in the LINT kernel.
kttcp		An in-kernel version of the ttcp network performance tool
mctest		A multicast test program
mid	 	Create a Message-ID database for mailing lists.
mwl		Tools specific to the Marvell 88W8363 support
ncpus		Count the number of processors
netmap		Test applications for netmap(4)
notescheck	Check for missing devices and options in NOTES files.
npe		Tools specific to the Intel IXP4XXX NPE device
pciid		Generate src/share/misc/pci_vendors.
pciroms		A tool for dumping PCI ROM images. WARNING: alpha quality.
pirtool		A tool for dumping the $PIR table on i386 machines at runtime.
portsinfo 	Generate list of new ports for last two weeks.
scsi-defects	Get at the primary or grown defect list of a SCSI disk.
sysdoc		Build a manual page with available sysctls for a specific
		kernel configuration.
tinybsd		Script to build FreeBSD embedded systems.
track		Track the progress of a world / kernel build
vimage		An interim utility for managing the virtualized network
		stack infrastructure.
vop_table	Generates a HTML document that shows all the VOP's in
		the kernel.
whereintheworld	Summarizes "make world" output.
