The Network Time Protocol (NTP) Version 4 Distribution

This is a distribution of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) Version 4
sources and documentation. NTP can be used by Unix, DEC VMS and
Microsoft Windows NT platforms to synchronize the computer clock to
external sources of time, such as other NTP time servers or a local
radio clock. The daemon included in this distribution can operate as a
server, a client, or a relay from a set of servers to a dependent client
population on a local net. This distribution includes the daemon itself,
plus utility programs and supporting documentation.

You are welcome to the lot, with due consideration of the copyright
information in the COPYRIGHT file. You are also invited to contribute
bugfixes and drivers for new and exotic radios, telephones and sundials.
This distribution is normally available by anonymous ftp as the
compressed tar archive ntp-<version>.tar.gz in the pub/ntp directory on
huey.udel.edu and <version> is the version number. The current stable
and development version numbers can be found at <http://www.ntp.org>.

A considerable amount of documentation, including build instructions,
configuration advice, program usage and miscellaneous information is
included in the ./html directory of this distribution. The intended
access method is using a web browser such as netscape; however, the
pages have been formatted so that viewing with an ordinary text editor
is practical. Start the browser on the ./html/index.html page, which
contains additional instructions and hotlinks to the remaining pages.
Some hotlinks for the larger documents, such as related technical
memoranda, reports and papers, lead to other web sites where this
information is stashed. We apologize for the inconvenience this may
cause for users without Internet and World Wide Web access.

If you are an old hand and just want to build the distribution, you
might find the INSTALL file a useful shortcut. A descriptive list of all
files in the base directory of this distribution is in the README file.
A list of "significant" changes for the release is in the NEWS file.

If you're interested in helping us test pre-release versions of ntpd,
please visit http://support.ntp.org/downloads and look for RC and/or
Development tarballs.

David L. Mills (mills@udel.edu)
21 June 1998
