1.12a
	Support for ENUM and BITS in gensnmp{tree,def}. Include directives
	and typedefs.

1.12
	A couple of man page fixes from various submitters.

	Make default communities NULL for security.

	Fix a core dump when -d tracing suboption has no argument (thanks
	to Shteryana Shopova).

	Fix bug in parsing the include path in the daemon.

	Fix an uninitialize structure field in gensnmptree (thanks to
	jasone@freebsdorg)

	64bit HC counters in the IF-MIB by polling the OS periodically.

	Fix link traps to be more RFC conform (thanks to glebius@freebsd.org)

	Add fallback definition for SA_SIZE() to support.h.

	Move the porting definitions for U?INT32_{MIN,MAX} into support.h.

	Include a sys/tree.h from FreeBSD-current and add autoconf
	check for it.

1.11a	Fix build of modules when stdint.h is included after asn1.h

1.11	Make the Mib2 routing table use red-black tree. This vastly
	reduces loading and access time. Load the table only every 10
	minutes. In the meantime process message from the routing socket
	to update the table.

	Lot of man-page fixes from ru@freebsd.org.

	Fixes to command line macros and macro redefinition.

	Trap variables for ntp (still need trap definition and code).

	Periodic timers from Victor Cruceru.

	Man-page fixes from Christian Brueffer.

	Lots of spelling fixes from Giorgios Keramidas.

	A number of changes to facilitate building on FreeBSD-4 from
	Andrey Elsukov.

	Add repeatable timers.

1.10
	Change all the tick handling in the daemon from 32-bit to 64-bit.
	Bump the modules' major version number to 3.

	snmp_dialog: make the syntax of the variable bindings in the outgoing
	message SNMP_SYNTAX_NULL regardless of the syntax given by the user.

	Fix an error in timer handling in the LIBBEGEMOT case.

	snmpd/main.c: Fix a 64-bit warning.

	lib/snmpclient: Add snmp_parse_server().

1.9
	tcpwrapper support from glebius@freebsd.org.

	crude interface to NTP: snmp_ntp

1.8
	many man page fixes from ru@freebsd.org and tobez@freebsd.org

	snmpd/main.c: fix a problem which resulted in the daemon exiting
	when a local socket was closed.

	snmpd/trans_lsock.c: include stdio.h to get a prototype for remove.

	gensnmptree/gensnmptree.c: fix a compile error

	snmp_mibII: add new field spec_oid to ifmib. This allows ifType
	specific modules to insert the value to be returned for ifSpecific.

1.7a
	fix core dump when config file cannot be opened (submitted by
	Maxim Konovalov)

1.7
	snmpd: Move event library initialization before reading of
	config file (thanks to phk).

	gensnmptree: can now read more than one tree and merge them.

	some support for compilation on older systems

	use standard C fixed width integer types [u]intNN_t

1.6
	New gensnmpdef tool. Needs libsmi.

	Make build infrastructure more intelligent.

	Fix a typo in the mibII counter retrival code.

	Add a new field to struct snmp_node for snmp agents: tree_data.
	This field can be used by the application.

	Fix a syntax error in the example configuration file (thanks to
	David J Duchscher).

	Fix a long standing problem with the module loading code
	and a memory leak. When a module could not be loaded usually
	a core dump was generated. This was caused by wrong handling
	of malloced memory in the module table dependency. While
	fixing this problem it became obvious that dynamic allocated
	data which was held in a dependency could be lost, because
	there was no guarantee that the dependency handler ever was
	call (in case of an error in a SET handler or an earlier
	dependency in the same PDU) thus causing this memory to leak.
	To fix this a third dependency operation is introduced
	SNMP_DEPOP_FINISH which is invoked just before a dependency
	is freed at the very end of the SET PDU handling. This
	means also that finalizers (set_atfinish) can be converted
	to DEPOP_FINISH handler in almost all cases. The only case
	where this is not so easy is when a finializer was registered
	for a simple SET operation. In this case an artifical dependency
	would be needed. Because this seems to occure very seldom the
	snmp_set_atfinish() call is removed. Thanks to Paul-Henning Kamp
	for an initial fix for the core dump.

09-Dec-2003
	First step on factoring out the transport mapping stuff into
	loadable modules.

	Local stream sockets that check the clients privileges.

03-Dec-2003
	Bump version to 1.5 but leave library version intact.

03-Dec-2003
	Now works with libbegemot polling stuff instead of libisc.
	Use --with-libbegemot[=path] to configure.

03-Dec-2003
	Fix parsing of non-minimal ASN.1 integers. They are now disallowed.
	Non-minimal lengths are allowed.

	Remove copyright clause 3 everywhere.

	Make an autoconf build infrastructure.

08-Nov-2003
	WARNS=6 fixed.

28-Jan-2003
	WARNS=5 fixes.

09-Jan-2003
	snmpd: remove local socket in case of an error to fully initialize it.
	Use chmod instead of fchmod. The latter seems not really to change
	the mode of the socket.

	lib: at program exit remove the local socket in the library.

11-Dec-2002
	Implement listening on unix domain sockets. The client must bind
	its socket, or the server cannot send back its response. These
	sockets are considered to be more secure, because it is much
	harder for an intruder to listen on them.

	This requires changes in snmpmod.h and snmpclient.h.

04-Dec-2002
	Sparc fixes.

15-Aug-2002
	Use inttypes.h instead of limits.h to get integer limits. This
	seems to be the Posix way.

	First drafts of an snmpd, gensnmptree, asn1, bsnmplib,
	bsnmpclient, bsnmpagent, snmpmod, snmp_mibII, snmp_netgraph man pages.

	snmpd/main.c: reorder getopt options according to style(9). Implement
	a -h option to print a short help.

25-Jun-2002
	Makefiles rewritten to not use bsnmpmod.mk. The BSD makefiles are
	really hard to use, because a) they are not documented and b) they
	change much too often.

	Make the patch a context diff instead of a unified one.

28-Feb-2002
	Library code for SNMP clients.
